# 6.0 Media Queries

---

We start this section off learning about flexbox \(and adaptable with flex-grow\(wrap\) and grids, as these are inherently responsive. However, with the ever evolving world of devices it is vitally important that your site content looks good, and exactly the way you want to present it, on any viewport size.

For example, there are wearables, HD 27" Monitors, printers, tablet in landscape and portrait mode. These are just a few examples but I think you get the gist of problem. Have no fear, media queries are here!

Media queries allow us to tell the browser, by tweaking the CSS rules, how to display our content depending on the size and type of the viewport.

---

### Media Queries

* adjust styling
* based on dimensions
* can detect viewport width
* color, color index, aspect ration, width, display width, height, display height, orientation, monochrome, resolution, scan, pixel-density

---

Essentially, media queries are used to "break" your layout no matter the screen size. Which helps sites load faster (a necessity in an impatient world). We call these "breaks" __breakpoints__.

Sites consist of 2 components; the "thing" or \(main event\) and then other stuffs\(ads, related pictures, articles, widgets\). You want to **prioritize** primary content while providing access to the supplementals.

Use **match media** allows js to capitalize on all media queries goodness chunking HTML that aren't the thing and them pulling them in when conditions are right.

There are three\(3\) core breakpoints:

  * small - applies to all screens
  * medium - covers 640px or wider
  * large - 1024px or wider.

Just as an aside, media queries work really well with grids.

EXPLORE MORE

  * pixel-density will become increasingly more important as it conditionally serves larger background images and icon sprites for Retina and other hi-res screens.

  * orientation might be used to conditionally disable fixed positioning to free up screen real estate.

on sites there are THe thing \(main event\) and then other stuffs\(ads, related picures, articles, widgets\) priotize primary content but provide access to supplemental stuffs. use match media allows js to capitalize on all media queries goodness chunking HTML that aren't the thing and them pulling them in when conditions are right.

keep it simple stupid . less is more. instead it is an appeal for simplicity and elegance: putting commonality first, approaching differentiation carefully, and advocating for consistency in the creation and application of web standards.

Getting to this less-is-more future web involves, in part:

* Integrating what we’ve been learning on the mobile web—“mobile first” design practices, performance focus, progressive enhancement, and, yep, Responsive Web Design—into the future of our overall web crafting tool kits;
* Understanding the difference between inspired details and distracting minutiae, and assuring what we
  _do_

  do has impact;
* Introducing less risk, or managing the risk we introduce—because each workaround or device-specific tweak we make introduces risk;
* Putting more oomph and involvement behind our requests for the reliable support of web standards in browsers and
  [across platforms](http://alistapart.com/column/the-web-on-mobile-and-beyond)
  , while making sure we’re learning and using the web standards we’re asking for; and
* Realizing when things aren’t in our bailiwick and getting ourselves off the hook for every technical eventuality. - Lyza Danger Gardner

conditional loading is allows to prioritzation core content adn proformance while still providing a robust full feature experience that can handle it   . using mq to reorder

### Syntax

`@media type and (expression){`

`specific styling here`

`}`

media query syntax is made up by a media type and zero or more expressions.

| Examples of Types | Examples of Expressions |
| :--- | :--- |
| **all** \(all devices listen to this\) | width \(of current window\) |
| **print** \(paged material & docs viewed in print preview mode\) | height \(of current window\) |
| **projection** \(projected presentations i.e. projectors\) | device-width \(width of the device/ENTIRE screen. may not always match viewport layout\) |
| **screen **\(color computer screens & smartphones\) | device-height \(height of the device\) |
| **braille** \(braille tactile feedback devices\) | orientation \(landscape or portrait\) |

or a more efficient way . . .

```html
<link rel='stylesheet' media='all' href='normal.css'/>
<link rel='stylesheet' media='print' href='print.css'/>
<link rel='stylesheet' media='screen and (min-width: 701px)' href='medium.css'/>
```

Linking the media query in the &lt;head&gt; is more effcient because it only call the size needed instead of loading all rules to meet all requirements.

Media queries The most effective media queries are those that target the viewport's width and height.

Choose your breakpoints based on your design NOT on specific device, but there may be occurences where a certain device is just not cooperating and you just need a little help with this certain device.

Checkout this site [http://cssmediaqueries.com/overview.html ](http://cssmediaqueries.com/overview.html)to get an overview of the different media queries \(sight also has a useful testing portal\)

[https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/media-queries-for-standard-devices/](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/media-queries-for-standard-devices/)

useful for altering layouts using media queries\(term link\) and adapting to different contexts.\*

Its a way to separate order of elements in the source from their visual presentation.\*

What it means to you: free to change location of page elements as is best for your layout at different breakpoints

Each element has its own grid area which will prevent overlapping due to text size changes, increase in content or small viewports.\*  
In the first chapter you created a basic site using grids.  We are going to take that layout and manually set the points at which the layout will change according to the size of the viewport.

Breakpoints:

7 - habits by highly effective media queries \(brad frost\) mobile first design styles are smaller simpilar more maintainable code

minor vs major breakpoints

major- when 1 column becomes 2, 2 becomes 3

minor - points at where one element might need to be modified

avoid pixel based media queries - use relative units

base on content not common device breakpoints.\(therefore make sure you are declarative in nameing\(for-phone-only instead of small\)

When thinking about brkpoints think in terms of line length instead of pixels REplacing em unit gives a consistent result if the user has a larger text than you expected.

UX - you can reorder grids \(and flexboxes to a lesser degree\)  but be wary of user experience varying from mobile to desktop and vice versa\(mouse vs touch\) and consider vertical mq's makeing sure content fits in height without user needing to scroll. for example- another UX consideration is pointer type \(mouse vs touch\) [https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2018/02/media-queries-responsive-design-2018/](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2018/02/media-queries-responsive-design-2018/)  has example code to test for this.  any-poniter/any-hover brings in future of voice activated UX

interaction media features \(list examples of additional terms\)

shorthand syntax  to indicate range @media \(40em &lt;= width &lt;= 59em \) same as @ media \(min-width: 40em\) and \(max-width: 59em\)

utilize the 'responsive' mode in Chrome DevTools

If you need to experience CSS breakpoints for screen sizes bigger than the monitor you’re sitting at, use the ‘responsive’ mode in Chrome DevTools and type in whatever giant size you like.

1. The blue bar shows ‘max-width’ media queries, the orange bar is ‘min-width’ media queries, and the green bar shows media queries with both a min and a max.
2. Clicking a media query sets the screen to that width. If you click on a green media query more than once, it toggles between the max and min widths.
3. Right click a media query in the media queries bar to go to the definition of that rule in the CSS.

Below, multi-column layout will only make columns if there is enough space to have two`15em`columns, and so doesn’t need a width media query to make it behave in a responsive manner. I have added a`min-height`media query, to text for a reasonable height before kicking in the columns. If this is a small screen in landscape mode, I’ll only show one column so the user can scroll down to read. \(Racheal Adams\)

```
@media
(
min-height
:
 500px
)
{
section 
{
column-width
:
15
em
;
}
}
```

When do I use breakpoints

Open your flexbox layout code. add the following code to it. This is actually coded in mobile-first approach.

```css
/* We rely on source order for mobile-first approach
* in this case:
* 1. header
* 2. article/main
* 3. aside 1
* 4. aside 2
* 5. footer
*/

/* Medium screens */
@media all and (min-width: 600px) {
/* We tell both sidebars to share a row */
.aside { flex: 1 auto; }
}
/* Large screens */
@media all and (min-width: 800px) {
/* We invert order of first sidebar and main
* And tell the main element to take twice as much width as the other two sidebars
*/
.main { flex: 2 0px; }
.aside-1 { order: 1; }
.main { order: 2; }
.aside-2 { order: 3; }
.footer { order: 4; }
}
```

Add different styles at these breakpoints so you can see that it not only can change size but font, color, order, as well.

“For reference, you should know that the iPhone 4 has a regular screen layout viewport of 640×960. This means that, in this example, the device-width of the iPhone4 is 320×480. This is the case because Apple realizes that not every website is built responsively \(shame on them\) and tries to please everyone by having around 980px width to accommodate the desktop view of the website. This means, that if there is no meta viewport tag in place, the iPhone4 will take your website, render it as if it were 980px wide, squish it into a 320px display, and as a result, would be zoomed out to the user.” - Ryan Reese \(SitePoint article\) on device-width vs width

while mobile-first is up for debate - I'm in the pro camp.

resources

for media queries feature acceptance check across browsers [https://caniuse.com/\#feat=css-mediaqueries](https://caniuse.com/#feat=css-mediaqueries)

[http://bradfrost.com/blog/post/7-habits-of-highly-effective-media-queries/](http://bradfrost.com/blog/post/7-habits-of-highly-effective-media-queries/)

Next up is mq 4 as everything else always evolving.

Keep an eye/ears open for Element Queries. Element queries target elements instead of browser. On the horizon. @mixin \(adv\)

