# 6.0 Media Queries

---

With the ever changing world of devices it is vitally important that your site content looks good and exactly the way you want to present it. In essense it needs to be _responsive. _ For example, there are wearables, HD 27" Monitors,  printers, tablet in landscape and portrait mode.  These are just a few examples but I think you get the gist of problem.  Have no fear, media queries are here!  Media queries allow us to tell the browser, by tweaking the CSS rules, how to display our content depending on the size and type of the viewport.

---

### Media Queries

* adjust styling 
* based on dimensions

---

Essentially, media queries are used to "break" your layout no matter the screen size.  There are three\(3\) core breakpoints. small covers all screens, medium covers 640px or wider, large 1024px or wider.

### Syntax

media query syntax is made up by a media type and zero or more expressions.

| Examples of Types | Examples of Expressions |
| :--- | :--- |
| **all** \(all devices listen to this\) | width \(of current window\) |
| **print** \(paged material & docs viewed in print preview mode\) | height \(of current window\) |
| **projection** \(projected presentations i.e. projectors\) | device-width \(width of the device/ENTIRE screen. may not always match viewport layout\) |
| **screen **\(color computer screens & smartphones\) | device-height \(height of the device\) |
| **braille** \(braille tactile feedback devices\) | orientation \(landscape or portra |

```css
// style
#header-image{
   background-repeat: no-repeat;
   background-image: url('image.gif');
   }

// show a larger image when you're on a big screen
@media screen and (min-width: 1200px){
   #header-image{
   background-image: url('large-image.gif');
   }
}

// remove header image when printing
@media print {
   #header-image{
   display: none;
   }
}
```

or a more efficient way . . .

```html
<link rel='stylesheet' media='all' href='normal.css'/>
<link rel='stylesheet' media='print' href='print.css'/>
<link rel='stylesheet' media='screen and (min-width: 701px)' href='medium.css'/>
```

Linking the media query in the &lt;head&gt; is more effcient because it only call the size needed instead of loading all rules to meet all requirements.

Media queries The most effective media queries are those that target the viewport's width and height.

Choose your breakpoints based on your design NOT on specific device, but there may be occurences where a certain device is just not cooperating and you just need a little help with this certain device.

Checkout this site [http://cssmediaqueries.com/overview.html ](http://cssmediaqueries.com/overview.html)to get an overview of the different media queries \(sight also has a useful testing portal\)

[https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/media-queries-for-standard-devices/](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/media-queries-for-standard-devices/)

useful for altering layouts using media queries\(term link\) and adapting to different contexts.\*

Its a way to separate order of elements in the source from their visual presentation.\*

What it means to you: free to change location of page elements as is best for your layout at different breakpoints

Each element has its own grid area which will prevent overlapping due to text size changes, increase in content or small viewports.\*  
In the first chapter you created a basic site using grids.  We are going to take that layout and manually set the points at which the layout will change according to the size of the viewport.



Open your flexbox layout code. add the following code to it. This is actually coded in mobile-first approach.

```css
/* We rely on source order for mobile-first approach
* in this case:
* 1. header
* 2. article/main
* 3. aside 1
* 4. aside 2
* 5. footer
*/

/* Medium screens */
@media all and (min-width: 600px) {
/* We tell both sidebars to share a row */
.aside { flex: 1 auto; }
}
/* Large screens */
@media all and (min-width: 800px) {
/* We invert order of first sidebar and main
* And tell the main element to take twice as much width as the other two sidebars
*/
.main { flex: 2 0px; }
.aside-1 { order: 1; }
.main { order: 2; }
.aside-2 { order: 3; }
.footer { order: 4; }
}
```



Add different styles at these breakpoints so you can see that it not only can change size but font, color, order, as well. 



“For reference, you should know that the iPhone 4 has a regular screen layout viewport of 640×960. This means that, in this example, the device-width of the iPhone4 is 320×480. This is the case because Apple realizes that not every website is built responsively \(shame on them\) and tries to please everyone by having around 980px width to accommodate the desktop view of the website. This means, that if there is no meta viewport tag in place, the iPhone4 will take your website, render it as if it were 980px wide, squish it into a 320px display, and as a result, would be zoomed out to the user.” - Ryan Reese \(SitePoint article\) on device-width vs width





Keep an eye/ears open for Element Queries. Element queries target elements instead of browser. On the horizon.

