# Positioning

---

## Part 1.0: Absolute vs Relative

The position property is one of the factor that dictates the location of an element.

Elements have an original position on the screen. The position property helps you to control the placement of your elements. We'll introduce the six(6) values of the position property and then you will have the opportunity to play around with them.

## Values

+ *static*: is the _default_ position for an element. The element will remain on the page according to the normal flow of the page AND will be unaffected by other positional values and properties.
+ *relative*: element will remain according to normal flow of page BUT will be affected by other postional values and properties.
+ *absolute*: element is isolated from the normal flow and other elements BUT will respond to other positional properties and values.
+ *fixed*: element is isolated, relative to the document and unaffected by scrolling (common ex. navbar).
+ *inherit*: postion property values _do not_ cascade. This value forces an element to use the positioning of its parent.
+ *sticky*: element assigned relative value until a specified scroll location within the viewport is reached, at which point the element will assume _fixed_ value.

(other positional properties and values: left, right, top, bottom, z-index)

## This is an h2

### Positioning Elements in Action

The best way to understand the execution of these values is to interact with them. Using the code that you downloaded has a parent element and a child element.