# 5.7 Position: Absolute

---

#### An _absolute_: element is

* is isolated from the normal flow and other elements
* **BUT** will respond to other positional properties and values.

---

Copy and paste the following.

```html
<div class="squareBlue"></div>
```

```css
.squareBlue{
  position: absolute;
  width: 200px;
  height: 200px;
  background: blue;
}
```

---

#### Explore more

Notice the placement as you:

1. Add **top** and **left** values set to 0px. 
   1. What does this do and why?
2. Change **top** and **left** to 100px, to 50%, 5em.
3. Choose different values for **top** and **left**.

1. Set squareBlue back to 0px for both **top** and **left.** 
2. Add a another square \(squareRed\) with **width** and **height** set to 150px. 
   1. Where was it placed? What happens when you swap the squareBlue and squareRed classes in the HTML?

1. Play around with **top** and **left** values of squareRed.

  


_**Where you set the position property of an element is important both in html and css**_

Challenge  
Gold Center the blue square  
Blue Center the square  
Red center the red square inside the blue square

1. Set squareBlue top\(x\) & left\(y\) to 50%. If squareRed top & left values are set to 50% as well, what do expect?  inside squareBlue. The left top corner is the anchor point for the element and therefore the point at which the element will be placed on the document \(or in relation to its ancestor\)
2. Add a margin-top & a margin-left with a negative value which is 1/2 the square's width and 1/2 the square's height to both squares. This should center the square.



