# 5.7 Absolute

---

## Values

#### `position: absolute;`

* _absolute_: element is isolated from the normal flow and other elements BUT will respond to other positional properties and values.

Copy and paste the following.

```html
<div class="squareBlue"></div>
```

```css
.squareBlue{
  position: absolute;
  width: 200px;
  height: 200px;
  background: blue;
}
```

Explore more

Notice the placement as you:

1. Add top & left values set to 0px. What does this do and why?
2. Change top & left to 100px, to 50%, 5em.
3. Choose different values for top and left.

4. Set squareBlue back to 0px for both top and left. Add a another square\(squareRed\) with width & height set to 150px. Where was it placed? What happens when you swap the squareBlue and squareRed classes in the HTML?

5. Play around with top & left values of squareRed.



_**NOTE**_ Before we move on, we need to take a look at the screen itself.

The screen is laid out in a grid where the upper left corner is \(0,0\)

when looking at a grid and plotting points the point at which x and y intersect is the point at which the point is plotted.  
 \(this is great if we know the exact size of an element, not so much if we don't. This will be explored in the transform/transition chapter\)

_**Where you set the position property of an element is important both in html and css**_

Challenge  
Gold Center the blue square  
Blue Center the square  
Red center the red square inside the blue square

1. Set squareBlue top\(x\) & left\(y\) to 50%. If squareRed top & left values are set to 50% as well, what do expect?  inside squareBlue. The left top corner is the anchor point for the element and therefore the point at which the element will be placed on the document \(or in relation to its ancestor\)
2. Add a margin-top & a margin-left with a negative value which is 1/2 the square's width and 1/2 the square's height to both squares. This should center the square.



