# CSS OVERVIEW

---
You know how to apply color to the background of your site. You know about margins, padding, borders and height and width. Inline styling - now moving to style sheets (LESS and SASS) Now its time to learn more about how CSS can enhance the presentation level of your application or site.

While this is labeled Advanced CSS, it is more of an introduction to more advanced CSS tools. It is certainly not comprehensive and there are tools and aspects of tools that we won't cover but can point you to some great references.

In this module we will cover the following topics and properties

flexbox
grids
borders
shapes
colors and gradients
shadowing
media queries
transforms
transitions
animations

In each part a concept will be introduced, you will be given practical applications and we will look to build upon each tool eventually using them to create an interesting feature.

Before we get to these we will want to introduce or review some CSS properties and values that are used frequently and across many tools. Understanding the value and importance of the presentation level to the user experience.

Remember: source order matters - source order of html of a page can affect users when CSS re-orders visually.  source-order vs display order not unique to flexbox and grids.

for examples of flexbox order none order.

Grids: can layer items, explicitly state where an element sits on the grid and even mix items with explicit positioning with those that will layout according to Grid's auto-placement algorithm.  Great value in using sub-grids within grids. declare elements on the grid as subgrid.


units: em, %, px, \(cm, mm, in, p, pt, pc, ch, rem\) vh, vw, vmin, vmax

This is really an intermediate course in CSS.  There is much more to CSS than what is contained here and much of what we do cover can be explored even further. Hopefully this gives you information and excites yoy enough to dig deeper or stay abreast of future happenings on the CSS future.

remember:  
general info: odds are you won't even think about precedence in CSS. It doesn't come up a whole heck of a lot. But it does matter! It comes up any time multiple CSS selectors match and element with the exact same[specificity](https://css-tricks.com/specifics-on-css-specificity/).

at the end of each chapter there will be a glossary and references. 