# 0.01 Design

---

Let's face it, the presentation level of an application is not high on the list of a back-end developer. Back-end developers only care if the program's output is the intended one. But for an application to be successful, it needs excellent **UI** and** UX**.

What are** UI** and **UX**?

* **UI** is **User Interface** and is concerned with how the product is laid out.** UI **designers are responsible for visually communicating the path the **UX** designer has laid out.
  * **visual design** - merry aesthetics and usability - positively correlated.
* **UX** is** User Experience** and primarily concerned with how a product feels, how the user interacts with the application, refining the logical flows from one step to the next.
  * **interaction design** - interaction between user and screen

**UI** and **UX** make a product more useful, understandable, usable and beautiful.

---

Take a look at the following two web sites:

[http://www.techservs.com](http://www.techservs.com/ "techservs") & [https://basecamp.com](https://basecamp.com/)

* [ ] What was your first reaction?
* [ ] Do you know what need the application is addressing?
* [ ] What did you notice immediately?
* [ ] What do you like about it?
* [ ] What don't you like?
* [ ] Was it easy to use/navigate?
* [ ] How would you describe your experience? \(_fun, miserable, frustrating, confused, angry, impatient, yuck_?\)

Which of these two would you rather use? An application could be the most useful application but with a terrible UI and/or UX experience the user will ditch it faster than you can say supercalifragilisticexpialidocious, which the user's experience will certainly NOT be!

## Design considerations

When designing the presentation level consider:

* Easy to understand navigation
* Proper use of color
* Proper use of animation
* An easy to use layout
* Pleasing to the eye
* Appropriate to the topic
* Design elements don't get in the way of the content 
* Great content that's easy to find, navigate, consume and share

For example, if you were tasked to develop two apps; one, a bank and the other, a elementary school spelling app.  In developing the bank app, you would want colors, fonts, images,etc that convey professionalism, clarity, responsibility.  The spelling app, though, would use bright colors, fun fonts, engaging images.  When considering the design it is important to know about the entity we are designing for and the users that are going to interact with it.

Essentially, you want to take a user-centered approach to the design and functionality of your application.

### Final Thought

It is important for back end developers to at least be aware of the presentation level, as it is important for front end to have knowledge of back end development to understand what is possible and how long something takes, so that they can incorporate it into how the code returns a results or operates. Having this mutual awareness will make a more productive, efficient team.

