# User Experience Design

When designing the presentation level consider:
    *Easy to understand navigation
    *Proper use of color
    *Proper use of animation
    *An easy to use layout
    *Pleasing to the eye
    *Appropriate to the topic
    *Design elements don't get in the way of the content
    *Great content that's easy to find, navigate, consume and share

>Successful UX
bases decisions on real user needs and desires
leaves user feeling successful and positive
requires a process for guiding decisions" - GDI

How about the Restaurant Rater application. It just gives you a list of restaurant names, address and rating. A list might be ok if there are only 10 restaurants listed but what if there are fifty, or a hundred, thousands? You can imagine how tedious it would be to find a restaurant that you want to go to, or some restaurants in the list may never get noticed.

If you were designing a bank app you would want colors that convey professionalism, responsibility, clarity.  If you were creating an educational app to help teach kids to spell it makes more sense to use bright colors, primary colors, a bigger font, more pictures, etc.

UX designers use a variety of tools to construct the user experience.
    *user personas
    *competition analysis
    *site maps
    *user experience maps
    *wire framing
    *card sort
    *mood boards
    *style boards
    *A/B testing
    *surveys/interviews

**user personas** are summaries of target audience or users already using the app. These summaries include information such as profession, gender, age range, how the use the application, what they like and any pain points (pain points are areas of an application that are problematic for a user).

**site maps** are maps that layout the structure of the application.

**user experience** maps chart the flow through a function of the application when user executes the necessary steps.

**wire framing** is a rough sketch of the pages within the application.

**competition analysis** is a comparison of an application's market competitors. Information included could be what is do, what it doesn't do, what it does well, what are the pain points,

**A/B testing** are quick tests on one element to determine which users may prefer.

**surveys and interviews** exploratory questions about a potential use of an application or feedback on a mockup of app.

**style boards** are collection of the fonts, buttons, colors, logos that are going to be used for the application.

5 core components of UX
information architecture-how many pages are there and how are they arranged
    better to have shallow depth page to keep user clicks to a minimum. Avoid information overload. keep it simple.

navigation-how does the user flow through the pages
    interdependent on IA. all the elements on a page that direct user flow. Ask 1.where am i and how did I get here? and 2. where should I go next and how do I get there. breadcrumbs solves the first question. 2 q is the call to action CTA, what a user's next step is.
interface and interaction - elements on page and how user actually interacts with them. hover, click, touch, type represents an interaction interface. (voice/camera)
    use established patterns
    be consistent
    draw the user's eye(visual hierarchy)
    provide feedback for interactions - visual cue that something has happened.
    provide undo for all actions (always have an 'oh shit' option or warning)
    help users diagnose and recover from errors (ex. seeing passwords as you type)
    empower experienced users- give shortcuts where you can
    speak a user's language - keep conversational
    identify the next step - give user step forward(
        ex. next button)
    kiss - just because its cool and/or flashy doesn't mean you should do it. but I do like a good animation - just don't make it busy or nauseating.
    Key words are minimal and simple.
    )
usability - user friendly(leveraging data to determine the validity of design decisions. communication/pain points user feels during use of product), data obtained by focus groups, surveys, 1-on-1 interviews, site visits, eye tracking, card sorts, a/b testing to name a few. defining user needs and behavior. early and often
prototyping - wire frames, inVision testing functionality and insight into design.

interaction design - interaction between user and screen
visual design - merry aesthetics and usability - positively correlated.

typically designers are going to do mobile-first design. back end are going with desk top first - why?
there are tools that can be used without coding skills. ex. InVision, UXPin, Figma, platform dependent.
