# User Interface

---

user empathy and understanding are vital to the success of any product but especially so in regards to apps. Consider changing set of behaviors, preferences, goals, global cultural differences\(ex. Nova car\) **UI** and **UX** makes a product more useful, understandable, usable and beautiful.

user: who does user want to be? what does user want to do? how does user want to feel?

design fundamentals - shape, color, size, texture are ex of design elements - design principles guide how those elements fit together.  
    balance - large vs small shapes.  
    contrast - light v dark, foreground v background, etc. visual interest, putting opposites side by side.  
    proximity - relationship between elements  
    alignment - allows for creation of unity and order connecting elements.  
    repetition - strengthens a design by tying together indiv. elements. ie. logo, color theme.  
    space - positive and negative space, very important. is distance or area between, around, about, below, or within elements.

glossary terms

\*\*user personas\*\*

are summaries of target audience or users already using the app. These summaries include information such as profession, gender, age range, how the use the application, what they like and any pain points \(pain points are areas of an application that are problematic for a user\).

  


\*\*site maps\*\*

are maps that layout the structure of the application.

  


\*\*user experience\*\*

maps chart the flow through a function of the application when user executes the necessary steps.

  


\*\*wire framing\*\*

is a rough sketch of the pages within the application.

  


\*\*competition analysis\*\*

is a comparison of an application's market competitors. Information included could be what is do, what it doesn't do, what it does well, what are the pain points,

  


\*\*A/B testing\*\*

are quick tests on one element to determine which users may prefer.

  


\*\*surveys and interviews\*\*

exploratory questions about a potential use of an application or feedback on a mockup of app.

  


\*\*style boards\*\*

are collection of the fonts, buttons, colors, logos that are going to be used for the application.

  


5 core components of UX

information architecture-how many pages are there and how are they arranged

better to have shallow depth page to keep user clicks to a minimum. Avoid information overload. keep it simple.

  
.

