# 0.05 UI & UX

---
Let's face it, the presentation level of an application is not high on the list of a back-end developer. Back-end developers only care if the program's output is the intended one. But for an application to be successful, it needs excellent UI and UX.

What are UI and UX? **UI** is User Interface and is concerned with how the product is laid out. UI designers are responsible for visually communicating the path the UX designer has laid out.
**UX** is User Experience and primarily concerned with how a product feels. The logical flows from one step to the next.

What is the difference? UX overlaps with UI more than the reverse. UI is the graphics, colors, fonts.  A UX designer will also deal with these, but UX is, more specifically, how the user interacts with the application. Most people don't know the difference and because UX designers will address some basic UI elements, job postings will often lump them together.

Knowing a user will abandon an app within two(2) seconds at the least up to a few minutes you can see how vital a good presentation level is to the success of the application.

Take a look at the following applications and answer the questions below about each.

What was your first reaction?
What did you notice immediately?
What do you like about it?
What did you not like?
Was it easy to use it?

Now, examine in more detail, each question.

What was your first reaction? Did you like it? Did it make you cringe?

What did you notice immediately? Colors? Font type? font size? text (a lot? a little?)

What didn't you like (if anything)?

How would you describe your experience? fun, miserable, frustrating,confused, angry, impatient, ugh?

It could be the most useful application but with a terrible UI and/or UX experience the user will ditch it faster than you can say supercalifragilisticexpialidocious, which the user's experience will certainly NOT be.

Open up this link (insert Taskly layout with bad UX).

You have just downloaded this application that you want to use as a time management app.

When you first open the app you are on the landing page. Do you understand what the app aims to do? Is it easy to log in? Is it easy to find help if you have questions? It is it easy to navigate?

Open your ElevenNote application that you built. Using the razor template produces a boring presentation level that doesn't really tell you what it does or what it is capable of doing. The form you fill out is ugly and cumbersome.

Or the Restaurant Rater application. It just gives you a list of restaurant names, address and rating. A list might be ok if there are only 10 restaurants listed but what if there are fifty, or a hundred, thousands? You can imagine how tedious it would be to find a restaurant that you want to go to, or some restaurants in the list may never get noticed.

If you were designing a bank app you would want colors that convey professionalism, responsibility, clarity.  If you were creating an educational app to help teach kids to spell it makes more sense to use bright colors, primary colors, a bigger font, more pictures, etc.

UX designers use a variety of tools to construct the user experience.
    *user personas
    *competition analysis
    *site maps
    *user experience maps
    *wireframing
    *mood boards
    *style boards
    *A/B testing
    *surveys/interviews

**user personas** are summaries of target audience or users already using the app. These summaries include information such as profession, gender, age range, how the use the application, what they like and any pain points (pain points are areas of an application that are problematic for a user).

**site maps** are maps that layout the structure of the application.

**user experience** maps chart the flow through a function of the application when user executes the necessary steps.

**wire framing** is a rough sketch of the pages within the application.

**competition analysis** is a comparison of an application's market competitors. Information included could be what is do, what it doesn't do, what it does well, what are the pain points,

**A/B testing** are quick tests on one element to determine which users may prefer.

**surveys and interviews** exploratory questions about a potential use of an application or feedback on a mockup of app.

**style boards** are collection of the fonts, buttons, colors, logos that are going to be used for the application.

5 core components of UX
information architecture-how many pages are there and how are they arranged
    better to have shallow depth page to keep user clicks to a minimum. Avoid information overload. keep it simple.

navigation-how does the user flow through the pages
    interdependent on IA. all the elements on a page that direct user flow. Ask 1.where am i and how did I get here? and 2. where should I go next and how do I get there. breadcrumbs solves the first question. 2 q is the call to action CTA, what a user's next step is.
interface and interaction - elements on page and how user actually interacts with them. hover, click, touch, type represents an interaction interface. (voice/camera)
    use established patterns
    be consistent
    draw the user's eye(visual hierarchy)
    provide feedback for interactions - visual cue that something has happened.
    provide undo's for all actions (always have an 'oh shit' option or warning)
    help users diagnose and recover from errors (ex. seeing passwords as you type)
    empower experienced users- give shortcuts where you can
    speak a user's language - keep conversational
    identify the next step - give user step forward(
        ex. next button)
    kiss - just because its cool and/or flashy doesn't mean you should do it. but I do like a good animation - just don't make it busy or nauseating.
    Key words are minimal and simple.
    )
usability - user friendly(leveraging data to determine the validity of design decisions. communication/pain points user feels during use of product), data obtained by focus groups, surveys, 1-on-1 interviews, site visits, eye tracking, card sorts, a/b testing to name a few. defining user needs and behavior. early and often
prototyping - wireframes, inVision testing functionality and insight into design. 
interaction design - interaction between user and screen
visual design - merry aesthetics and usability - positively correlated.

typically designers are going to do mobile-first design. back end are going with desk top first - why?
there are tools that can be used without coding skills. ex. InVision, UXpin, Figma, platform dependent.

user empathy and understanding are vital to the success of any product but especially so in regards to apps. Consider changing set of behaviors, preferences, goals, global cultural differences(ex. Nova car) UX makes a product more useful, understandable, usable and beautiful.

user: who does user want to be? what does user want to do? how does user want to feel?

design fundamentals - shape, color, size, texture are ex of design elements - design principles guide how those elements fit together.
    balance - large vs small shapes.
    contrast - light v dark, foreground v background, etc. visual interest, putting opposites side by side.
    proximity - relationship between elements
    alignment - allows for creation of unity and order connecting elements.
    repetition - strengthens a design by tying together indiv. elements. ie. logo, color theme.
    space - positive and negative space, very important. is distance or area between, around, about, below, or within elements.

user-centered approach adn iterative.

what is usability? a user should be able to use a product and find it self-explanatory, efficient, and simple. also products that are forgiving, evoke positive emotions and get users absorbed in the experience. (ie facebook - endorphins, waze - why i like to use it/prefer to gmaps)


But it is important for back end developers to at least be aware of the presentation level, as it is important for front end to have knowledge of back end development to understand what is possible and how long something takes, so that they can incorporate it into how the code returns a results or operates. Having this mutual awareness will make a more productive, efficient teams.