# 
CSS is a stylesheet language that describes the presentation of an HTML (or XML) document.
CSS describes how elements must be rendered on screen, on paper, or in other media.

CSS(CSS3) — Css is Cascading Style Sheet used for style the web pages, with help of css, you can style the web pages, websites, etc..

W3.css — w3.css is CSS framework, build for responsive design, like bootstrap, that means you create responsive websites with help of w3.css.
Hope it will help you…


# Part 2.0: COLORS

A big part of a successful website is how it looks to the user.  Styling goes beyond where you place items on your site. We will be exploring colors more in depth. When thinking about color, you need to keep in mind the target audience, accessabilty and psychology. We will cover

Color Theory
HSL
Transparency
Gradients

## COLORS

We know that colors can be defined by name (147!), hex and RGB values. Now another value to expand color choices is HSL and transparency.

example: dark red
    #8000
    Maroon
    rgb(128,0,0)
    rgba(128,0,0,1.0)
    hsl(0,100%,13%)
    hsla(0,100%, 13%, 1.0)
    
opacity property applies to element AND all of its children
a(alpha) has no impact on other css properties or descendants

any text in halfopaque div will be 50% opaque while text in halfalpha div will be black/only background color of that single element will be slightly opaque (background-color is not inherited property(?))

screenshot example

### HSL/HSLA

HSL mimics way humans perceive color. It is intuitive and is quicker and easier to make changes*

H = Hue (0-359)
    0(or 360) is red
    120 is green
    240 blue
S = Saturation (%, 100% = full saturation)
L = Lightness (%, 100% = light/white, 50% = norm, 0% = dark/black)

### Color Theory


Primary (for our purposes: red, blue, green)
Secondary
Tertiary

Color Wheels - showing the relationship between primary, secondary, and teriary colors

Color Hue, Lightness and Saturation

Color Scheme - logical combinations of colors/purpose to create an aesthetic feeling of style and appeal.

black on white is default web color scheme
white on black is often preferred for smaller devices.
**white on black requires less energy(battery life) on most display technologies. 

importance of color in design because of accessability, target audience, human psyhcology


### Schemes

Monochromatic - use only one color using diff tones, but same hue

Analogous - using colors that are next to each other

Complementary - combining colors from opposite sides of wheel

Triadic - made up of hues equally spaced around the wheel

Compound - uses colors on both sides of the opposite hue

Learn more:
https://www.w3schools.com/colors/colors_schemes.asp





## GRADIENTS

defined as the smooth transition between two or more colors

Using gradients is an easy way to add depth and dimension.  

paint a radial gradient in some shape at some size that is located in these postions and make sure it starts with this color and ends with this color.*


Terminology
creating gradients
color-stops: specify multiple in between color values called color-stops (combination of color and postion; used anywhere, i.e. background images, border images, list-style-type)

Fully responsive

3 types
linear, radial, conical(top to bottom, bottom to top, left to right, right to left, or along any arbirary axis)


Syntax
background-image: direction, starting color, color stops, end color) may want to include -webkit-to target webkit browsers

angles in degrees(deg) 0deg points upward, 90deg points toward right, etc in clockwise direction

key directional phrases:
    to top
    to bottom
    to left
    to right
    to top left
    to bottom left
    to top right
    to bottom right 
    
example: 
background-image: linear gradient(60deg, #000, #fff 75%, #000); 
note: color accepts hex, rgba and hsla

screen shot

### Radial Gradients
circular or elliptical(default)
define the center of the gradient, size, shape and color stops. Color stops start in the center and proceed outward

example: background-image: radial-gradient(circle farthest-corner at center, #fff, #000);

default starting position is center of containing area

example: 
background-image: radial-gradient(dircle farthes-corner at 30px 30px, #fff, #000);

Size parameters
    closest-side(smallest)
    closest-corner
    farthest-side
    fathest-corner(largest)
    length or percentage (only for ellipses)
    
postion: top, right, left, center, or top center, bottom left, default is center

### Hard Color Stops
Useful for declaring a full-height background that simulates columns or stripes
example:
background-image: linear-gradient(to right, #ffdc2, #ffdc2 15%, #d7f0a2 15%, #d7f0a2 85%, #ffdc2 85%);

### RESOURCES
John Allsop’s CSS3 Sandbox  http://www.westciv.com/tools/gradients/

Damian Galarza’s Gradient Generator  http://gradients.glrzad.com/

https://webgradients.com/

http://paletton.com/#uid=1000u0kllllaFw0g0qFqFg0w0aF

https://htmlcolorcodes.com/color-names/

http://www.colorhunt.co/

http://hex2rgba.devoth.com/

### TERMINOLOGY

alpha-channel: transparency


    